BFM Business until 12:30 full
place in the issue 100% plasmor
the imso murray is now like every
day we bring you ideas for
invest your money why not
invest in precious metals in
the gold see the silver metal we will talk about it
with jean françois faure hello jean
francois fabriol are the president of
coop points like before talking
money we will talk about during the
the stage gold one is still largely this
morning under the $ 1300 for an ounce of gold
why the prices of the ounce of gold do not
progresses more the piano then there we are
actually in a logic in these
g flat photos at the gold level
specifically since the end of the year
we are between two antagonistic forces
which are on one side ukraine that grows
rising gold and the recovery that one
we are boasting who is trying to send the gold to
the decline to sell us more
more interesting things
finally any case that's what we are
makes believe and so today
specifically and fairly
basic we are really in this
logical good and on the other hand there are some
much bigger forces such as by
example China who continues to buy
massively who became the buyer the
most important in the world before India in
2013 so there are still some fundamentals
which are important I would say that in this
moment it is to play down
or the rise is clearly a moment
interesting to position
since we are in a period
of wait
we are in the middle of the ford exactly
middle of the ford we even have the averages
mobiles over 20 weeks that are also
extremely flat therefore means that the
gold price a priori
naturally if we let them go
like that naturally will remain stable
for a long time
I would say that on this first
semester we can actually still
have this kind of effect except events
major geopolitics that can
obviously all day break in hand
so it's really watching from very
close by a word also money
silver metal
we hear more and more talk is this
it's worth it to invest in
the silver metal then the silver metal is
extremely interesting it is not
very well known to help French people
because
very simply in France when we
provides information to buy silver-metal
those who want to ask you
to apply you the VAT on it and this
who is actually legal or buy
an ingot we put you the VAT so there
it's 20% away that's still
a lot of people
if we look a little bit at the rest of
europe where even the united states by the
Americans buy massively from
silver metal because they can the
put on their booklet of 2.2
of savings
which are offered to them there even the
Germans buy twice as much as
we because the VAT is lower
so that's the problem is actually if
we get clear information that we analyze
a little bit the products it turns out that
some silver metal products can
to be purchased without vat for example the
legal tender documents
I take the case of the philharmonic of
come with a face value of 1
euro 50 but it's a shame so in
does you buy an ounce of money
metal when you buy this product
monique stone philharmonic
become here in itself that allows to
circumvent the VAT legally not to
get it applied you also have
the tokens the silver metal medals
etc. that are interesting and globally
all these products besides that comes in
in this context there it is tokens
or currencies having legal tender
you also have an interest on a plane
tax since you have an exemption
up to 5000 euros per session
every time you sell a small
little else like on gold on the
same on the type of products chips and
piece having legal tender you have a
exemption below 5000 euros
so it's very interesting so it's okay
we play the very long term and it's a
first trick to get around
legally this vat on silver metal
there are other tricks what I do you
mention there in relation to taxation and
after beyond the trick it's also
why position yourself on money
metal and here we are in a logic of
very long term oat to send on gold
today the cycles are relatively
most common play gold over 5 10 years
gold the money has rather the
table on 20 30 years for
very simply industrial reasons that's
that in 20 or 30 years we do not have
of silver metal to go out to extract from the
earth yes because we can not them to
value his land that today by
example if you take the case of gold this
which has been extracted from the earth in matter
from the beginning
of the night of human times and
we arrive then valued that 170 thousand
tons
we specifically where is it
we also know how to recycle their clothes
tight used exactly on the money
metal it's not the same the same
problematic it's much more
complex and in the case for example of
industrial products it's not even
possible doing this you take the chips
rfid in which one finds money
metal
we do not know how to revalue them
extract the money that is to say that there in
out of the money that was hit
in the form of coins or ingots and
which still remains very much in
below 2 of world consumption
everything else disappears volatilises
so we're necessarily in a
logic there term of rarefaction
exactly of rarefaction what should
lead to an increase in
the silver metal you say on horizon 20
30 yrs so beautiful when we have 60 70
today it's not necessarily worth the
shot of the item bought money
metal is the one reserved for the most
younger generations do not have
necessarily after us we do not see
daily in a lot of people who
are interested in this kind of savings even
by being old in a logic of
transmission
today we are still sure of
courses that are extremely low
in 2011 we had 1 1 an ounce of money
which was at 56 dollars
today we are below 20
dollars see so
there is still on the spot the same
problems that we have on gold with
another hundred wait-and-see and that's at
level of silver metal in a
investment logic we have pretty much
the same effects knowing that on
money on the other hand and that's where he
must be very hung not too much
to have nerves
you are sure of the effects
multipliers certainly when the organ
money wins 3 very volatile and
it's extremely volatile so you have to
to know how to be patient not to have too much
nose on silver metal every day and
say this is I bought for
future generations
and that's where I really win
yes , it might not be
badly in France you said in the United States
to products on which we can
place his money metal products
of spared in France it does not exist that
no clearly not in France
would rather like to point you towards
strictly paper products it's very
it's very European it's not
worse also because there the
Government is making efforts to
redirect the savings towards aid to
companies the financing of
companies these virtuous for a but that's
it's totally virtuous but the example
I take quite frequently
do not oppose a car with
the assurance that one learns from one's
car I will not oppose the
shares with gold and silver metal
I would say that one on the other in August
2011 had one
spontaneously large number of customers that
you called pont d'hérault and that's it
I was able to sell my gold there now
because he was at the top
allowed to mop up the 40% drop that
I had on the 40th at the same time
one does not prevent the other half
staff I have real estate
I have some life insurance I
some actions and I'm going to have
a little gold actually the
diversification is diversification
and there is no competition there is a
a breakdown that allows you to play on
the right levers
here are some keys to invest so
on silver metal bypassing the VAT
thanks to your tips thank you very much jean
françois faure the chest president
points as very soon
cac 40 still slightly down in
loses 0 3% this Friday morning the army has
4465 alstom point still suspended from
quotation at the request of the mlf on
speak again in a moment right away